GSoC project application guide updates [WEBSITE-587] (#1969)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/projects/gsoc/proposing-project-ideas.adoc

:toc:

New ideas for GSoC can be proposed by mentors, students and/or anyone in the Jenkins
community with an idea they'd like to see implemented.
If you have an interesting project that meets our requirements,
please follow the procedure documented on this page.

> 

Reviewer: Agreed: Add a short quickstart here

During the selection phase we won't be able to accept proposals without mentors, so
we highly recommend getting initial feedback in the mailing lists before spending too much
time on such proposals.

== Acceptance process for new project proposals

Project proposals are tracked in two places. When first proposed they are added to
the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/14N6kCShmxy4SumT0khuEFxXYZE4v1_bimK66PJuBHzM/edit#heading=h.o5kqo7p5rgto[project
  table in the projects doc]. Once a project is accepted as a draft, it is also published to
  link:/projects/gsoc/2019/project-ideas[jenkins.io].

Projects are proposed by a project champion who is a potential mentor or interested student.
Please see
link:/projects/gsoc/2019/roles-and-responsibilities[this list of roles] for
more information about the different project roles.
The champion will be responsible for shepherding the
proposal through the process. The acceptance process includes the following steps:

. The project champion makes a copy of the
  link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/14N6kCShmxy4SumT0khuEFxXYZE4v1_bimK66PJuBHzM[project proposal template]
  and creates a new Google Document describing the project proposal.

> . When the project is ready for consideration, the project champion contacts GSoC admin via its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When the project is ready for consideration, the project champion contacts GSoC org admins via the
```

>   link:https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/gsoc-sig[gitter channel] or the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  link:https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/gsoc-sig[Jenkins GSoC gitter channel] or the
```

>   link:mailto://jenkins-gsoc-2019-org-admins@googlegroups.com[GSoC admin mailing list].

Reviewer: I think it's better to use the public mailing list for it

. An org admin will add the proposal to the
  link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/14N6kCShmxy4SumT0khuEFxXYZE4v1_bimK66PJuBHzM/edit#heading=h.o5kqo7p5rgto[project
    table in the projects doc],
  giving it a status of "NEW"
. The link:/projects/gsoc/#mentors-and-org-admins[GSoC org admins] discuss the the proposal with the champion and provide initial feedback

> . Once the proposal is formally correct, a GSoC org admin will change the status to "DRAFT"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Once the proposal is consistent with the GSoC template requirements, a GSoC org admin will change the status to "DRAFT"
```

Reviewer: Just to make it more clear

* Creating new demo and reference setups,
powered by various "-as-Code" engines (e.g. Jenkins Pipeline, JobDSL, Docker, link:/projects/gsoc/gsoc2018-project-ideas/#jenkins-configuration-as-code[Configuration-as-Code plugin], etc.)

== Notes for students

Although we encourage students to propose their own project ideas, we cannot guarantee
that will find potential mentors for every proposal, especially for narrow areas.
During the selection phase we won't be able to accept proposals without mentors, so
we highly recommend getting initial feedback in the mailing lists before spending too much
time on such proposals.

> == Acceptance process for new project proposals

Reviewer: Project proposal template is not referenced in the doc at all

Project proposals are tracked in two places. When first proposed they are added to
the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/14N6kCShmxy4SumT0khuEFxXYZE4v1_bimK66PJuBHzM/edit#heading=h.o5kqo7p5rgto[project

>   table in the projects doc]. Once a project has been deemed viable, it is also published to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  table in the projects doc]. Once a project is accepted as a draft, it is also published to
```

Reviewer: Otherwise collides with the steps below

>   link:https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2019/project-ideas[jenkins.io].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  link:/projects/gsoc/2019/project-ideas[project ideas list].
```

> Projects are proposed by the project champion. The champion will be responsible for shepherding the

Reviewer: add link to the _Roles_ page?

> Projects are proposed by the project champion. The champion will be responsible for shepherding the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects are proposed by the project champion who is a potential mentor or an interested student. 
The champion will be responsible for shepherding the
```

proposal through the process. The acceptance process includes the following steps:

> . The project champion creates a project proposal and adds the proposal to the

Reviewer: I think we should let champions to make the proposals in the GSoC mailing list or in Gitter to simplify the process for them. Table entry can be added by org admins

  link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/14N6kCShmxy4SumT0khuEFxXYZE4v1_bimK66PJuBHzM/edit#heading=h.o5kqo7p5rgto[project
    table in the projects doc],
  giving it a status of "NEW"
. The link:/projects/gsoc/#mentors-and-org-admins[GSoC org admins] discuss the the proposal with the champion and provide initial feedback
. Once the proposal is formally correct, a GSoC org admin will change the status to "DRAFT"
. An org admin publishes the draft project idea on link:https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2019/project-ideas/#draft-project-ideas[jenkins.io]
. The project champion reaches out to the community to get additional feedback about the proposal
  (Community channels include chats, mailing lists, and the SIG meetings).
  NOTE: The champion should try to recruit one or more mentors from the community. Having
  multiple mentors is crucial to the success of the project.
  The proposal document should
  be updated to reflect any changes suggested by the community.
. Once the champion and org admins feel the proposal has been developed enough to be viable:
  .  The org admins change the status of the proposal to "ACCEPTED" in the summary table

>   .  Champions/mentors should synchronize the google doc with jenkins.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  . Contact Org admin publishes the current state of the document to the Jenkins website
  . After this change, champions/mentors should synchronize the google doc with jenkins.io
```

> . The org admin update the project at link:https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2019/project-ideas[jenkins.io],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The contact org admin updates the project at link:https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2019/project-ideas[jenkins.io],
```
